docs: adding doc for pubsub (#2808)
open-policy-agent/gatekeeper: website/docs/pubsub-driver-walkthrough.md

---
id: pubsub-driver

> title: Pubsub Interface/Driver walk through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Pubsub Interface/Driver walkthrough
```

---

> This guide provides an overview of the pubsub interface, including details on its structure and functionality. Additionally, it offers instructions on adding a new driver and utilizing providers other than Dapr.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides an overview of the pubsub interface, including details on its structure and functionality. Additionally, it offers instructions on adding a new driver and utilizing providers other than the default provider Dapr.
```

> ## Pubsub interface and Driver walk through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pubsub interface and Driver walkthrough
```

Pubsub's connection interface looks like
```go
// Connection is the interface that wraps pubsub methods.
type Connection interface {
	// Publish single message over a specific topic/channel
	Publish(ctx context.Context, data interface{}, topic string) error

	// Close connections
	CloseConnection() error

	// Update an existing connection with new configuration

> 	UpdateConnection(ctx context.Context, data interface{}) error

Reviewer 2: data -> config

}
```

> Dapr driver implements these three methods to publish message, close connection, and update connection respectively. Please refer to [dapr.go](../../pkg/pubsub/dapr/dapr.go) to understand the logic that goes in each of these methods. Additionally, Dapr driver also implements a method `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns a new client for dapr.

Author: good call!

> Dapr driver implements these three methods to publish message, close connection, and update connection respectively. Please refer to [dapr.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/dapr/dapr.go) to understand the logic that goes in each of these methods. Additionally, Dapr driver also implements a method `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns a new client for dapr.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, the Dapr driver implements these three methods to publish message, close connection, and update connection respectively. Please refer to [dapr.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/dapr/dapr.go) to understand the logic that goes in each of these methods. Additionally, Dapr driver also implements a method `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns a new client for dapr.
```

> Dapr driver implements these three methods to publish message, close connection, and update connection respectively. Please refer to [dapr.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/dapr/dapr.go) to understand the logic that goes in each of these methods. Additionally, Dapr driver also implements a method `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns a new client for dapr.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dapr driver implements these three methods to publish message, close connection, and update connection respectively. Please refer to [dapr.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/dapr/dapr.go) to understand the logic that goes in each of these methods. Additionally, Dapr driver also implements `NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` method that returns a new client for dapr.
```

### How to add new drivers

> **Note:** For this exercise, let's say we are trying to add a driver to use `RabbitMQ` instead of Dapr as a tool to publish violations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** For example, if we want to add a new driver to use `RabbitMQ` instead of Dapr to publish violations.
```

> **Note:** For this exercise, let's say we are trying to add a driver to use `RabbitMQ` instead of Dapr as a tool to publish violations.

Reviewer 3: instead of calling this `rabbitmq`, should we say "foo" or something?

> Any new driver has to implement the methods of `Connection` interface and additionally a new method  `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns client for respective tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A driver must implement the `Connection` interface and a new method  `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns a client for the respective tool.
```

> Any new driver has to implement the methods of `Connection` interface and additionally a new method  `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` that returns client for respective tool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any new driver has to implement the methods of `Connection` interface and additionally a new `NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` method that returns client for respective tool.
```

> > The name of the method that returns client could change, but the signature of the method must be the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The name of the method that returns a client could change, but the signature of the method must be the same.
```

> This newly added driver's `NewConnection` method has to be added in `pubSubs` variable in [provider.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/provider/provider.go). For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This newly added driver's `NewConnection` method must be used to created the  `pubSubs` variable in [provider.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/provider/provider.go). For example,
```

```
var pubSubs = newPubSubSet(map[string]InitiateConnection{
	dapr.Name: dapr.NewConnection,

>     rabbitmq.Name: rabbitmq.NewConnection,

Reviewer 3: looks like indentation is off here

},
)
```

### How to use different providers

> To enable audit to use this driver to publish messages, a connection configMap with appropriate `config` and `provider` is needed. For example,

Reviewer: Can you add something about what are valid and invalid values for config and provider?

Author: Added more information. Ty

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: audit
  namespace: gatekeeper-system
data:
  provider: "foo"
  config: |
    {
      <config needed for foo connection>
    }
```

> > The `data.provider` field must exists and must match one of the keys of the `pubSubs` map that was defined earlier to use the corresponding driver. The `data.config` field in the configuration can vary depending on the driver being used. For dapr driver, `data.config` must be `{"component": "pubsub"}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `data.provider` field must exist and must match one of the keys of the `pubSubs` map that was defined earlier to use the corresponding driver. The `data.config` field in the configuration can vary depending on the driver being used. For dapr driver, `data.config` must be `{"component": "pubsub"}`.
```

### How to add new drivers

**Note:** For example, if we want to add a new driver to use `foo` instead of Dapr as a tool to publish violations.

A driver must implement the `Connection` interface and a new `func NewConnection(_ context.Context, config interface{}) (connection.Connection, error)` method that returns a client for the respective tool.

> The name of the method that returns a client could change, but the signature of the method must be the same.

This newly added driver's `NewConnection` method must be used to create a new `pubSubs` object in [provider.go](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/blob/master/pkg/pubsub/provider/provider.go). For example,

```go
var pubSubs = newPubSubSet(map[string]InitiateConnection{
  dapr.Name: dapr.NewConnection,
  "foo": foo.NewConnection,
},
)
```

### How to use different providers

To enable audit to use this driver to publish messages, a connection configMap with appropriate `config` and `provider` is needed. For example,

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: audit
  namespace: gatekeeper-system
data:
  provider: "foo"
  config: |
    {
      <config needed for foo connection>
    }
```

> > The `data.provider` field must exists and must match one of the key of `pubSubs` map that was defined earlier to use the corresponding driver. The `data.config` field in the configuration can vary depending on the driver being used. For dapr driver, `data.config` must be `{"component": "pubsub"}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `data.provider` field must exists and must match one of the keys of  the `pubSubs` map that was defined earlier to use the corresponding driver. The `data.config` field in the configuration can vary depending on the driver being used. For dapr driver, `data.config` must be `{"component": "pubsub"}`.
```
